README.md, before:

# CoCo

A platform for coding and collaborating for students and teachers.

## Installation

1. Clone the repository
2. Install bun with `npm install -g bun`
3. Install dependencies with `bun install`
4. Create a .env from the .env.example file with the following variables:
   - DATABASE_URL: The URL of the Postgres database
   - NEXT_PUBLIC_RAPID_API_KEY: The API key for the judge0 API
5. Run the start database script with `./start-database.sh` (given by T3, but changed to account for testing)
6. Setup the database with `bun run db:push`
7. Go to the following rapid API https://rapidapi.com/judge0-official/api/judge0-ce. Create account and subscribe to the API to get a key. Copy the key and paste it in the .env file for NEXT_PUBLIC_RAPID_API_KEY.
8. Run the app with `bun run dev`
9. Go to http://localhost:3000 to see the app. This will prompt for a login, which is not present in the db by default.
10. Open prisma studio and create a user. This can be done via `bun run db:studio`. Inside Studio, first create a group with the name "testGroup". Then create a user in the group with the username "testUser" and password "testUser" (under User model add a user, then assign the user to the group).

Now it is possible to go and login with the given username and password. Then you can create a course, a lecture and an exercise. When going into the exercise page, at first it will show a loading message. This can take some time, since the code editor is connecting to the websocket server that allows for code collaboration. This is hosted on a Render server, which idles after being idle for a while. It is also possible to set your own Render server up, but this is not supported completely yet, since it takes a little effort to get the server running.

The Render server is setup based on:
<https://github.com/yjs/y-websocket>

If wanted to change to a different websocket server, it is possible to change by going into the CodeEditor.tsx file and changing the websocket url.

## Testing

1. install playwright dependencies and browsers with `npx playwright install`. (this is not supported if using arch linux)

Before running tests, the Render server for the websocket (for codemirror) needs to be running and not idle. To prompt the Render server to start, first run the tests (they will fail on code editor), then wait 2 minutes and then run again.


To run the tests, run `bun run test` in the terminal. There is an issue where the development server may not start by itself, so you may need to run the ./start-database.sh script again and make sure this process is running before running the tests.

It is also possible to run the tests in a headed enironment with `bun run test:headed`.

Commit message:

updated README with vercel link and login info

README.md, after:

# CoCo

A platform for coding and collaborating for students and teachers.

## Installation

1. Clone the repository
2. Install bun with `npm install -g bun`
3. Install dependencies with `bun install`
4. Create a .env from the .env.example file with the following variables:
   - DATABASE_URL: The URL of the Postgres database
   - NEXT_PUBLIC_RAPID_API_KEY: The API key for the judge0 API
5. Run the start database script with `./start-database.sh` (given by T3, but changed to account for testing)
6. Setup the database with `bun run db:push`
7. Go to the following rapid API https://rapidapi.com/judge0-official/api/judge0-ce. Create account and subscribe to the API to get a key. Copy the key and paste it in the .env file for NEXT_PUBLIC_RAPID_API_KEY.
8. Run the app with `bun run dev`
9. Go to http://localhost:3000 to see the app. This will prompt for a login, which is not present in the db by default.
10. Open prisma studio and create a user. This can be done via `bun run db:studio`. Inside Studio, first create a group with the name "testGroup". Then create a user in the group with the username "testUser" and password "testUser" (under User model add a user, then assign the user to the group).

Now it is possible to go and login with the given username and password. Then you can create a course, a lecture and an exercise. When going into the exercise page, at first it will show a loading message. This can take some time, since the code editor is connecting to the websocket server that allows for code collaboration. This is hosted on a Render server, which idles after being idle for a while. It is also possible to set your own Render server up, but this is not supported completely yet, since it takes a little effort to get the server running.

The Render server is setup based on:
<https://github.com/yjs/y-websocket>

If wanted to change to a different websocket server, it is possible to change by going into the CodeEditor.tsx file and changing the websocket url.

## Link to CoCo deployed on Vercel
On this deployment is the same data as used in the usablity test. This page will NOT be changed before the exam date.
Link: https://co-coding-platform.vercel.app/login
Login:
   username: user1, user2, user3, user4, user5, user5.
   password: Same as username (They must match)


## Testing

1. install playwright dependencies and browsers with `npx playwright install`. (this is not supported if using arch linux)

Before running tests, the Render server for the websocket (for codemirror) needs to be running and not idle. To prompt the Render server to start, first run the tests (they will fail on code editor), then wait 2 minutes and then run again.


To run the tests, run `bun run test` in the terminal. There is an issue where the development server may not start by itself, so you may need to run the ./start-database.sh script again and make sure this process is running before running the tests.

It is also possible to run the tests in a headed enironment with `bun run test:headed`.
